it happened to me yesterday when I was
once again being late for work as always
I rushed down the stairs and first into
the subway station next to my home the
train was about to leave and as if in
slow motion
I saw its doors closing I made a wild
dash expecting the doors to open up as I
was squeezing through well they cut a
long story short it didn't happen and I
got stuck the doors just wouldn't open
as they used to before luckily some kind
fellow passengers rescued me from the
door trap and I arrived at work on time
but as soon as I finished all the urgent
work I made a coffee break and sat at my
computer to Google why my morning
accident happened in the first place it
turns out that there are two types of
subway train doors out there the first
type is the doors with kindest sensitive
edges it means that as soon as this door
detects an obstacle such as your leg
elbow or even your bag it will
immediately be open after you have
squeezed through the door will either
close again automatically or the train
conductor will press some buttons to
make it close but there are doors that
aren't equipped with sensitive edges and
I guess the ones where I got stuck on my
way to work were of this second kind
they don't retract automatically when
meeting an obstacle oh no they just keep
pressing on whatever has been unlucky
enough to get trapped in between them
which was me this morning the good news
is that such insensitive doors won't do
you any serious harm there are some
standards for how forcefully the train
doors can close and if everything goes
as it's supposed to you shouldn't feel
more than 45 pounds of force if you get
trapped in the closing doors unpleasant
but not that bad but this information
got me to thinking why don't they equip
all subway doors with sensitive edges
would easily survive without an
additional thrill of being squeezed by
merciless subway car doors but again it
turned out that the issue was more
complicated than it seemed to me at
first sight for one thing if something
goes wrong with the retraction mechanism
the doors with sensitive edges can open
during the trip accidentally spilling
people out of the moving car besides if
people keep squeezing through sensitive
edge doors making them open again and
again it will disrupt the whole train
schedule and create terrible human jams
and finally the more additional gizmos
you add to a mechanism the higher the
chance is that something goes wrong with
it or it breaks down for example
sensitive edge doors may open up
accidentally if they come into contact
with something that shouldn't be in
their way well all things considered in
sensitive doors might not be such a bad
idea anyway
while I was browsing the internet in
search of answers I came across some
other cool information about the world
subway systems including some travel
tips to find an unoccupied seat on a
subway train up for the very front or
the very back car you'll thank me later
when this crafty approach saves you from
being squished during the rush hour or
some other busy event the tube that's
how you call the London Underground
system is the oldest subway system in
the world it opened its underground
railway in 1863 and the first
electrified line appeared in 1890 the
world's second oldest subway system is
in Budapest the Hungarian Metro opened
in 1896 in March 2013 more than 1200
Japanese workers turned an aboveground
tree line into a subway line it was a
huge operation demanding an immense
amount of work but the inhabitants of
Tokyo didn't even notice anything
unusual the construction took place
during the train lines off hours and was
completed within one night the time
limits were extremely tight the last
train arrived at the Shibuya station at
1:00 a.m. and the first morning train
was to depart at 5:00 a.m. but for hours
turned out to be enough for an army of
engineers and construction workers to
organize everything and even run a
couple of tests trains in New York City
and London there are buildings that are
actually nothing more than huge dummies
there's nothing behind them since they
are just besides hiding subway
maintenance and ventilation systems
speaking about New York many subway
stations have separate entrances for
trains heading downtown and those
travelling uptown and once you've swiped
your card and got inside you won't be
able to simply change the platform you
can't get a refund and problems escalate
if you bought an unlimited access card
in this case you'll have to wait for 18
minutes before you can use it again is
the situation with separate entrances
the same in your city sound off in the
comments section below in the city of
Cincinnati Ohio there is an almost
finished never used and eventually
completed abandoned subway system with
more than two miles in length
it's the biggest abandoned subway system
in the US the construction started at
the beginning of the 20th century but
the cost turned out to be too high and
the project was left unfinished the
safest place in case of emergency is
inside the subway car but if you
absolutely have to leave it look for
blue or white lines blue lights indicate
a place with a telephone fire
extinguisher and a power off switch as
for white lights arranged in a circle
they show where an exit to the street is
cities and Greece have massive problems
with building subway systems and no
wonder every time they start digging a
new line they come across some ancient
ruins
quanzhou a city in China has no subway
system whatsoever just 22 years ago but
look at this wonder now
the subway system of the city has an
astonishing 257 stations and 14 lines
almost 500 trains transport from 8 to 10
million passengers every day in total
the length of the subway system is about
300 miles subway trains in Montreal have
brake shoes that are made from wood
soaked in peanut oil for one thing these
brakes are rather quiet plus they wear
out metal wheels less what's more
experts say that wooden brakes are
eco-friendly er than steel or graphite
ones New Yorkers are often too busy to
waste time looking around they need to
board a subway train as fast as possible
but those few who dart a glance at the
train conductor usually notice a very
curious thing at the stations a subway
conductor would always point their
finger out of the window and if you
follow the direction of this finger
you'll see that it's always the same in
the middle of each subway platform in
New York City there is a strike black
and white wooden bar if this zebra board
is lined up with the conductor's window
this lets them know that it's safe to
open the doors and is crucial because if
the train stops in the wrong clicks
either its rear car or the front one may
end up in the tunnel and passengers
won't have a platform to step on
but conductors must not only look at the
board but also point at it with their
finger this way they prove that they're
paying attention you aren't allowed to
eat or drink on subway trains in
Washington DC the reason you may stain
carpets that cover the floor of most
subway cars and the authorities will
have to spend extra money to clean them
and finally this the New York subway
system has the world's biggest number of
stations 472 in total in here's a bonus
the famous Duke Ellington's band
signature tune take the a train is based
on a real New York subway line it's the
Train that would take you up to Harlem
where the cool jazz
once were